Ligand Binding Site Design Exercise
===


In this exercise, we will (re-)design a ligand binding site in the context of an existing protein. Our test system is Flavodoxin (PDB: 1f4p), which binds the co-factor flavin mononucleotide (FMN).

You will be starting from a hypothetical mutant we generated computationally, in which the residues of the natural binding site are all mutated to Alanine. Here, the binding site environment is essentially defined as all residues within 6 Å of the ligand (with some exceptions). In the resfile,these positions are set to be ‘designable’ (i.e. the identity of the amino acid residues is allowed to vary during the protocol). In addition, to stabilize the binding site environment, residues within 8 Å of the ligand are allowed to ‘repack’ (i.e. different rotamers for the pre-existing residue are sampled during the protocol).

After designing a synthetic binding site using Rosetta, you will analyze the type of interactions between the redesigned protein and its ligand. You will also compare it to the original binding site of the natural protein. Finally, you will compare the results of your design runs with the most prevalent residues for the designed positions in different Flavodoxin sequences.

### Setup

The files for this exercise are found at https://github.com/Kortemme-Lab/protein_design_course_files/tree/master/ligand_exercise

If you have already git installed this repository, please update it with

```bash
cd /path/to/protein_design_course_files
git pull
cd ddg_exercise
```

Start by setting up a Roseasy workspace:

```bash
roseasy setup ligand_exercise
```

In addition to specifying the path to the input pdb file, resfile and python binary, here, you will also need to provide the path to a ‘params’ file for the ligand. This file parameterizes the ligand, which is necessary for Rosetta to handle it correctly. As with the previous exercise, you can ignore RosEasy's request for a `loops` file (just hit \<enter\>).

```bash
<input> protein_design_course_files/ligand_exercise/1f4p_input.pdb
<input> /path/to/anaconda/envs/proteindesign/bin/python
<input> protein_design_course_files/ligand_exercise/resfile
<input> protein_design_course_files/ligand_exercise/FMN.params
```

Next, cd into the workspace’s root directory and submit the design runs:

```bash
cd ligand_exercise
roseasy submit . standard_params/ligand_fastdesign.py -l -n 5
```

Once finished, plot the results based on the designs’ energies. You may also like to compare other metrics of the designs in a table.

```bash
roseasy plot 01_designs/outputs
roseasy make_table 01_designs
```

Compare your designs to the input structure containing the Alanine-pocket. To do so, right-click on a point and select ‘compare_to_input’ in the graph generated by the plot command.
In the PyMOL session that opens, you can type ‘ww’ in the PyMOL command line to cycle through mutations.

**By visual inspection, does the ligand appear to be properly accommodated in the binding pocket?**

**Which types of interactions participate in binding of the ligand? How do these vary between the different designs?**

Next, compare the computationally designed binding sites to the natural binding site of the (non-mutated) Flavodoxin input. To do so, open the relaxed pdb file ‘1f4p_wt_r.pdb’ (which you can find in the protein_design_course_files/ligand_exercise directory), in PyMOL. If you load it into the same PyMOL session as the design, you can again cycle through mutations by entering the following in the PyMOL command line.

```
wt_vs_mut 1f4p_wt_r, design_input_00X
```

Note:
The protein in the PDB file you will be starting with (1f4p_prmrr.pdb) was mutated, relaxed and renumbered (for Rosetta; starting at 1) by us. Therefore, position 1 in this file corresponds to position 2 in the non-mutated PDB file (1f4p_pr.pdb) and the sequence logo in Ollikainen et al., PLOS Computational Biology, 2015.

**How do the natural and synthetic binding sites compare? Are residues of the natural binding site recapitulated in the designed one?**

**If the precise identity of amino acids differs, are the types of interactions recapitulated, e.g. hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic interactions, etc.? Which alternative interactions may have arisen during design?**

**Moreover, how do the residues found in the designed binding sites compare to frequently occurring residues in different Flavodoxin binding site sequences? To address this, you can find a ‘sequence logo’ in [this paper](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004335) by Ollikainen et al., PLOS Computational Biology, 2015 (Fig. 7).**

**More broadly, do you suppose that a ‘native’ binding site for a particular ligand (i.e. a small-molecule binding site found in a protein structure in the PDB) can be regarded as a ‘gold standard’ for a binding site for this ligand?**





